raspios/README.md, before:

# Raspberry Pi OS Customization

The [raspios](raspios/) directory provides a series of scripts to build and flash
a custom Raspberry Pi OS image running COGIP tools (`Copilot` and `Robotcam`) on the Pi 4 embedded in the robot.

It works by creating a Docker image based on Raspberry Pi OS Lite, use Dockerfiles
to install/configure/remove softwares and services, extract and build the customized image,
and flash it on a SDCard.

## Requirements

 - Docker

See [Docker installation instructions](https://docs.docker.com/engine/install/).

 - ARM Emulation

```
$ sudo apt-get install binfmt-support qemu-user-static zerofree
$ docker run --rm --privileged multiarch/qemu-user-static --reset -p yes
```

## Configuration

Configuration is done by setting required variable in `.env` file in working directory.

Existing variables and example values:

```
IP_ADDRESS=192.168.1.12
GATEWAY=192.168.1.1
WLAN_SSID=My_SSI
WLAN_PSK=<ssi_password>
SDCARD_DEV=/dev/sdc
```

## Stage 0

First stage builds a docker image from original Raspios image.

```
$ ./stage0_base_image.sh
```

## Stage 1

Build a customized docker image:
 - install required Debian and Python packages
 - configure required services
 - install COGIP tools

```
$ ./stage1_customize_image.sh
```

## Stage 1b (under development)

This stage is optional and allow to build a custom kernel image.
It is not working yet so not documented.

## Stage 2

Create the custom filesystem image.

```
$ ./stage2_create_image.sh
```

## Stage 3

Flash the filesystem image on SDCard.

```
$ ./stage3_flash_image.sh
```

Commit message:

raspios: configure network for beacon and robots and update documentation
Signed-off-by: Eric Courtois <eric.courtois@gmail.com>

raspios/README.md, after:

# Raspberry Pi OS Customization

The [raspios](raspios/) directory provides a series of scripts to build and flash
a custom Raspberry Pi OS images running COGIP tools on the Pi 4
embedded in the beacon and robots.

It works by creating a Docker image based on Raspberry Pi OS Lite, use Dockerfiles
to install/configure/remove softwares and services, extract and build the customized image,
and flash it on a SDCard.

## Nework Configuration

Default network configuration is represented on the following schema:

![Network Configuration](img/cogip-network.svg)

## Requirements

 - Docker

See [Docker installation instructions](https://docs.docker.com/engine/install/).

 - ARM Emulation

```
$ sudo apt-get install binfmt-support qemu-user-static zerofree
$ docker run --rm --privileged multiarch/qemu-user-static --reset -p yes
```

## Configuration

Configuration is done by setting required variables in `config.env` file in working directory.
This file defines all parameters to customize Raspberry Pi OS for beacon and robots.

Variable `ROBOT_ID` can be set in the environment to specify the robot id.
Id 0 specifies the beacon, 1-N the robots.
This variable is required only for stages 2 and 3.

## Stage 0

First stage builds a docker image from original Raspios image.

```
$ ./stage0_base_image.sh
```

## Stage 1

Build a customized docker image:
 - install required Debian and Python packages
 - configure required services
 - install COGIP tools

```
$ ./stage1_customize_image.sh
```

## Stage 1b (under development)

This stage is optional and allow to build a custom kernel image.
It is not working yet so not documented.

## Stage 2

Create the custom filesystem image.

```
$ ./stage2_create_image.sh
```

## Stage 3

Flash the filesystem image on SDCard.

```
$ ./stage3_flash_image.sh
```
