docs/usage/detector.md, before:

# Detector

The `Detector` tool is running on the Raspberry Pi embedded in the robot.

It communicates on the `/detector` namespace of the SocketIO server
running on the central beacon over Wifi.

It builds dynamic obstacles used by `Monitor`/`Dashboards` for display
and by `mcu-firmware` to compute avoidance path.

`Detector` can operate in monitoring or emulation mode.

### Monitoring Mode

Read data from lidar connected on a serial port of the Raspberry Pi.

### Emulation Mode

Ask the `Monitor` to emulate the Lidar wich sends its data through the SocketIO server.
The emulation mode is enabled if no Lidar is detected at startup.

## Data Flow

![Detector Data Flow](../img/cogip-detector.svg)

## Run Detector

```bash
$ cogip-detector
```

## Parameters

`Detector` default parameters can be modified using command line options or environment variables:

```
$ cogip-detector --help
Usage: cogip-detector [OPTIONS]

Options:
  --server-url TEXT               Server URL
                                  env var: COGIP_SERVER_URL
                                  default: http://localhost:8080

  --min-distance INTEGER          Minimum distance to detect an obstacle
                                  env var: DETECTOR_MIN_DISTANCE
                                  default: 150

  --max-distance INTEGER          Maximum distance to detect an obstacle
                                  env var: DETECTOR_MAX_DISTANCE
                                  default: 2500

  --obstacle-radius INTEGER       Radius of a dynamic obstacle
                                  env var: DETECTOR_OBSTACLE_RADIUS
                                  default: 500

  --obstacle-bb-margin FLOAT      Obstacle bounding box margin in percent of the radius
                                  env var: DETECTOR_OBSTACLE_BB_MARGIN
                                  default: 0.2

  --obstacle-bb-vertices INTEGER  Number of obstacle bounding box vertices
                                  env var: DETECTOR_OBSTACLE_BB_VERTICES
                                  default: 6

  --beacon-radius INTEGER         Radius of the opponent beacon support
                                  (a cylinder of 70mm diameter to a cube of 100mm width)
                                  env var: DETECTOR_OBSTACLE_RADIUS
                                  default: 35

  --refresh-interval FLOAT        Interval between each update of the obstacle list (in seconds)
                                  env var: DETECTOR_REFRESH_INTERVAL
                                  default: 0.2

  -e, --emulation                 Force emulation mode.
                                  env var: DETECTOR_EMULATION

  -r, --reload                    Reload app on source file changes.
                                  env var: COGIP_RELOAD, DETECTOR_RELOAD

  -d, --debug                     Turn on debug messages.
                                  env var: COGIP_DEBUG, DETECTOR_DEBUG
```

Commit message:

tools: detector: add support for YDLidar G2
Use YDLidar G2 to detect and build obstacles.
Note the intensity value is not used anymore since this value does not
seem to be reliable.

Signed-off-by: Eric Courtois <eric.courtois@gmail.com>

docs/usage/detector.md, after:

# Detector

The `Detector` tool is running on the Raspberry Pi embedded in the robot.

It communicates on the `/detector` namespace of the SocketIO server
running on the central beacon over Wifi.

It builds dynamic obstacles used by `Monitor`/`Dashboards` for display
and by `mcu-firmware` to compute avoidance path.

`Detector` can operate in monitoring or emulation mode.

### Monitoring Mode

Read data from lidar connected on a serial port of the Raspberry Pi.
This is the default mode when a Lidar is connected, since the YDLidar SDK automatically
detects the serial port to use.

### Emulation Mode

Ask the `Monitor` to emulate the Lidar wich sends its data through the SocketIO server.
The emulation mode is enabled if no Lidar is detected at startup.
In case of a false detection, use the `--emulation` option.

## Data Flow

![Detector Data Flow](../img/cogip-detector.svg)

## Run Detector

```bash
$ cogip-detector
```

## Parameters

`Detector` default parameters can be modified using command line options or environment variables:

```
$ cogip-detector --help
Usage: cogip-detector [OPTIONS]

Options:
  --server-url TEXT               Server URL
                                  env var: COGIP_SERVER_URL
                                  default: http://localhost:8080

  --min-distance INTEGER          Minimum distance to detect an obstacle
                                  env var: DETECTOR_MIN_DISTANCE
                                  default: 150

  --max-distance INTEGER          Maximum distance to detect an obstacle
                                  env var: DETECTOR_MAX_DISTANCE
                                  default: 2500

  --obstacle-radius INTEGER       Radius of a dynamic obstacle
                                  env var: DETECTOR_OBSTACLE_RADIUS
                                  default: 500

  --obstacle-bb-margin FLOAT      Obstacle bounding box margin in percent of the radius
                                  env var: DETECTOR_OBSTACLE_BB_MARGIN
                                  default: 0.2

  --obstacle-bb-vertices INTEGER  Number of obstacle bounding box vertices
                                  env var: DETECTOR_OBSTACLE_BB_VERTICES
                                  default: 6

  --beacon-radius INTEGER         Radius of the opponent beacon support
                                  (a cylinder of 70mm diameter to a cube of 100mm width)
                                  env var: DETECTOR_OBSTACLE_RADIUS
                                  default: 35

  --refresh-interval FLOAT        Interval between each update of the obstacle list (in seconds)
                                  env var: DETECTOR_REFRESH_INTERVAL
                                  default: 0.2

  -e, --emulation                 Force emulation mode.
                                  env var: DETECTOR_EMULATION

  -r, --reload                    Reload app on source file changes.
                                  env var: COGIP_RELOAD, DETECTOR_RELOAD

  -d, --debug                     Turn on debug messages.
                                  env var: COGIP_DEBUG, DETECTOR_DEBUG
```
