docs/usage/monitor.md, before:

# Monitor

The `Monitor` is used to monitor the robot behavior during the game.
It it connected to `Copilot` embedded in the robot through Socket.IO protocol.

Only one `Monitor`can be connected to `Copilot`at the same time.

The monitor provides a graphical interface, featuring:

  * a 3D view of the table (in yellow) and the robot (in green)

  * a menu giving access to the firmware's shell menu

  * a button to add obstacles (in grey), move and resize them

  * save and load obstacles using JSON files

  * visualization of ToF (red dots) and LIDAR (bleu dots) sensors detections

  * visualization of obstacles detected in the firmware (in transparent red)

  * charts window to visualize calibration data

![GUI Overview](../img/monitor/gui_overview.png)

![Charts View](../img/monitor/charts_view.png)

## Command line options

```bash
$ cogip-monitor --help
Usage: cogip-monitor [URL]

  Launch COGIP Monitor.

Arguments:
  [URL]  URL to Copilot socket.io/web server  [env var: COPILOT_URL; default: http://copilot]
```

!!! note "Environnement variables can be set in the `.env` file."

## Launch the monitor

To connect the `Monitor` to the `Copilot` running on the same developmnet PC, run:

```bash
cogip-monitor http://localhost:8080
```

To connect the `Monitor` to the `Copilot` running on the Raspberry Pi in the robot, run:

```bash
cogip-monitor http://copilot
```

!!! note "Adapt URL and port depending on `Copilot` configuration"

Commit message:

tools: copilot: add Detector tool to compute dynamic obstacles
The Lidar is now connected to Raspberry Pi instead of STM32.
This commit is only related to the emulator version.

The Detector tool computes dynamic obstacles based on Lidar data and robot
position.
The robot position is provided by mcu-firwmare through Protobuf messages.
In emulator mode (Lidar in not connected and uart_port option of Detector
is set to None), Lidar data are generated by the Monitor, send to the
Copilot and forwarded to the Detector.

Dynamic obstacles computed by the Detector are sent to the Copilot via
SocketIO messages, then forwarded to mcu-firmware via Protobuf messages
to compute avoidance path, and to Monitor/Dashboards via SocketIO messages
for diplay.

Signed-off-by: Eric Courtois <eric.courtois@gmail.com>

docs/usage/monitor.md, after:

# Monitor

The `Monitor` is used to monitor the robot behavior during the game.
It it connected to `Copilot` embedded in the robot through Socket.IO protocol.

Only one `Monitor`can be connected to `Copilot`at the same time.

It can also provide fake Lidar data to `Detector` in emulation mode.

The monitor provides a graphical interface, featuring:

  * a 3D view of the table (in yellow) and the robot (in green)

  * a menu giving access to the firmware's shell menu

  * a button to add obstacles (in grey), move and resize them

  * save and load obstacles using JSON files

  * visualization of ToF (red dots) and LIDAR (bleu dots) sensors detections

  * visualization of obstacles detected in the firmware (in transparent red)

  * charts window to visualize calibration data

![GUI Overview](../img/monitor/gui_overview.png)

![Charts View](../img/monitor/charts_view.png)

## Command line options

```bash
$ cogip-monitor --help
Usage: cogip-monitor [URL]

  Launch COGIP Monitor.

Arguments:
  [URL]  URL to Copilot socket.io/web server  [env var: COPILOT_URL; default: http://copilot]
```

!!! note "Environnement variables can be set in the `.env` file."

## Launch the monitor

To connect the `Monitor` to the `Copilot` running on the same developmnet PC, run:

```bash
cogip-monitor http://localhost:8080
```

To connect the `Monitor` to the `Copilot` running on the Raspberry Pi in the robot, run:

```bash
cogip-monitor http://copilot
```

!!! note "Adapt URL and port depending on `Copilot` configuration"
